# 英语面试

## Self-introduction

Good Afternoon, dear professors.

I am glad to be here for this interview. My name is Fang Shengjun, and I am a undergraduate student majoring in artificial intelligence at Nanjing University. I plan to apply for LAMDA group. My GPA was in the top 15% of my major during my undergraduate period. 

I am curious about learning knowledge. When I encounter problems, I am good at searching for and thinking about solutions on my own, and I am keen to learn programming knowledge and artificial intelligence knowledge. It is also the reason that I prefer to go on for further education.

This is my self-introduction, thanks for your attention.


## Projects

I wrote a course project, Reversi. First of all, I wrote a reversi UI based on the web frontend, so that players and AI can play against each other more conveniently. Secondly, I wrote two Reversi AIs based on two different methods. The first AI uses the situation evaluation function and alpha-beta pruning for strategy tree search. The second AI uses Monte Carlo tree search, looking for the next drop in a random way. It consists of four steps: selection, expansion, simulation, backpropagation.


## About your future plans

There will be many things to learn if I were a graduate student. I hope I can build up a systematic view of artificial intelligence, and participate of some relevant projects. After graduating from graduate school, I hope to join a company and apply knowledge what I have learned. I want to use what I have learned to contribute to society.


## Quality

I have a strong curiosity, good at searching and thinking about solutions when encountering problems, willing to take the initiative to learn new knowledge, keen to learn programming knowledge and artificial intelligence knowledge, and also participate in many open source projects.


## The course that interests you the most

Linear Algebra is the course that interests me the most. Because I think linear algebra has a good picture of geometric space, and many of the concepts in it are the basis for modeling machine learning problems. For example, a sample can be represented as a vector. And based on the matrix calculation theory in linear algebra, we can use the GPU to parallelize the computation, thereby accelerating our computation.


## Do you have any hobbies?

In my spare time, I like reading books, like science fictions and popular science books. I enjoy the interesting ideas within them. Besides, I also like some sports, such as running and cycling, especially at night. This allows me to relax my brain after a busy day.


## Have you ever encountered difficulties?

I did encounter some difficulties in study, but it is hard for me to recall a specific example now. Generally speaking, when I encounter difficulties, I will first spend a while trying to solve them myself, but if I can't solve them, I will ask others for their opinions.


## Research Fields

I have chosen reinforcement learning as my research direction for graduate studies because it offers a compelling blend of theoretical depth and practical impact. RL empowers me to explore cutting-edge AI technologies, solve complex real-world problems, and optimize decision-making processes.


## Machine learning algorithms

I'm going to talk about SVM. Support Vector Machine is a powerful machine learning algorithm that helps find the best decision boundary between different classes. It aims to maximize the margin, which means finding the widest gap between data points. By doing so, SVM can classify new, unseen data accurately. SVM is versatile, robust, and works well with high-dimensional data.


## Sort algorithms

I'm going to talk about quicksorting. QuickSort works by choosing a "pivot" element, then dividing the list into two parts—smaller elements and larger elements—around the pivot. It repeatedly applies this process to the smaller and larger parts, sorting them recursively. Eventually, all the elements fall into place, giving us a sorted list. 


## Hometown

My hometown is located in a county town in Guigang City, Guangxi Province. It is nestled beside the Xijiang River, which is a part of the mighty Pearl River. I love taking leisurely walks along the riverbank during my free time. Although my hometown is not big, it has a warm and welcoming atmosphere.


## Open source projects

I have participated in some small open source projects, mainly some tool chains to help me better research and learning, such as tools that receive LaTeX mathematical expressions as input for calculation. I open sourced these projects on GitHub and received a lot of feedback from classmates and other users, which gave me a certain sense of accomplishment.
8