# 本周作业：

* 1.朗读：课本123-124页上有关第一单元part five的截选片段。
* 2.听写练习：听写第一单元part five中的一段，具体记上面ppt
* 3.听力理解：第一单元part three，具体问题见上面ppt
* 4.口语：从所给话题中选一个，一个人单独讲一分半到二分钟。具体见上面ppt
* 5.下周词汇测试范围从bias到confine


# 1.Speak

Complete.


# 2.Dictation

Well, I woke up this morning and said to myself, "Now sara, what are you going to do with your life? What course are you going to do?"

My dad thinks I should become a financial adviser, and do people's accounts. Because I am pretty good with figures.

Or perhaps I should be some kind of biologist, because that was my best subject at school.

Or should I pursue my real love, modern dance.

And you chose modern dance.

Yes, I did. I want to make my living as a dancer.

Good for you! Now the course starts in the first week in September which is, let me see, the fifth.

Oh, great! I can't wait. 

Now, hold down. You have to be accepted onto the course first. You need to come in for audition and interview.

Oh, no. I hate auditions.

Hahhhh, I am afraid if you want to be a dancer, they are all part of the job.

Ah, well. When can they see me?


# Listen

## Task 1

### What was the assignment?

The assignment was to write about Bruegel.

### Why did Watson give the student a C?

Because Watson thought Joan copyed Strass.

### How did Joan retort?

Joan referenced him as an expert.

### What was the solution?

Watson give Joan another chance, finding the stories and break them down into smaller pieces.

### What did Watson advise Joan to do?

Do the both: go to a law school and get married.

## Task 2

You gave me a C.

I'm kind.

The assignment was to <u>write</u> <u>about</u> Bruegel. That's what I did.

No, what you did was <u>copying</u> Strass.

I was **referencing** him as an expert.

If I wanted to know what he thought, I'd buy his book.

Miss Watson, with all due respect...

Bruegel was a <u>storyteller</u>. Find the stories. <u>Break them down</u> into smaller pieces. You might actually enjoy it.

You're giving me another chance?

So it seems.

---

It is my file? What's it say.

Well, let's see.

Straight A's.

Until now.

President of the poetry society, captain of the debate team, co-captain of the tennis club, founder of the horiculture league.

I sound like a pompous ass.

Yes, you do, but a very busy one.

And it says you are a pre-law. What law school are you gonna go to?

I had'n think about that. After graduate, I'm getting married.

And then?

And then I'll be married?

You can do both.

Just for funny. If you can go to any law school at the country, which it would be?

Yale.

Yale. They keep five slots open for women, one unofficially for Wellesley girl.

But you haven't really thought about that.

## Task 3

### What activities was Joan involved in according to her file?

> President of the poetry society, captain of the debate team, co-captain of the tennis club, founder of the horticulture league.

Poetry, debating, tennis and horticulture.

## Task 4

### 1)

The student want to get married after her graduation.

### 2)

Do the both: go to a law school and get married.

### 3)

Yale.


# 